ratmundum. vu

reique contentaneum eat, nihil ut praeclarius et
ad utum huius scriptoria recte instituendum taln-
brius dici potae videatur. Verba autem eius, quae

· Hist ol' the D. and F. of the tt. R c. LXIII. lc·

guntur, haec tunt:

»The name and situation ol the emperor John
-Cantacuzene might inspire the most lively curio-
tity. Hit memoriale of forty years extend hom
the revolt of the younger Andronicus to hia own
abdication of the empne, and it it obterved, that,
lile Mosen and Caesar, he wat the principal ac·
tor in the soenes which he describet But in this
‚eloquent work, we should vainly teek the tiu-
cerity ol' an hero cr a penitent Retired in a
oloyster fmm the vices and passione of the world
he pretenta not a confessions but an apology, ol
the lise of an ambitious statesman. Instead of
unlolding the true counaelt and charactera of men,
he displays the smooth and apeciout surfaoe os
events, highly varnished with his own praises and
those of his friends, Their motives are always
pure3 their endo always legitimate: they concpire
and rebel without any viewa ol intereat3 and the
violence which they inflict or suffer ia celebrated
‘aa the spontaneoua effect of reason and virtue«

Ser. Bonnae mena. Sept. a. 1828. ,

m·—

 

